README.md, before:

# 2Dface_to_3Dface

| name | how to contact |
| --- | --- |
| Ko Ye Joon | [![Gmail Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-d14836?style=flat-square&logo=Gmail&logoColor=white&link=mailto:yejoon.ko@gmail.com)](mailto:yejoon.ko@gmail.com) |
| Jeong Seung Won |  [![Gmail Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-d14836?style=flat-square&logo=Gmail&logoColor=white&link=mailto:jeongsw34@gmail.com)](mailto:jeongsw34@gmail.com) | 


This is the project about super resolution, face reconstruction, face frontalization.  
If you give image which contained one or more person to model, the model will produce 3d reconstruction face and frontalization face for image.

<br>
<b>(the system structure)</b>
<br>
Later , model image will be attached.

<br>

<pre style="color:#fa8072">
referred : 
    super resolution - [model name] : link
    3d reconstruction - deep3d : [click to link](https://github.com/microsoft/Deep3DFaceReconstruction, "deep3d link")
</pre>

<br>

### 1. requirements

##### 1-1. Install Dependencies

```
* conda create -n face3d python=3.6 
* conda activate face3d
* tensorflow-gpu == 1.12.0 (conda install tensorflow-gpu == 1.12.0 )
* keras==2.2.4
* torch==1.5.1 #pip uninstall tensorboard
* torchvision==0.6.1
* mtcnn
* pillow
* argparse
* scipy
* scikit-image
* imgaug
* opencv-python
* dlib
* tqdm
* PyQt5==5.15.1
```

or
```
* conda env create -f environment.yaml
* conda activate face3d
```

<br>

##### 1-2. compile tf_mesh_renderer

we referred to <b>[this site](https://github.com/microsoft/Deep3DFaceReconstruction, "deep3d link") </b>as the link.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/google/tf_mesh_renderer.git
$ cd tf_mesh_renderer
$ git checkout ba27ea1798
$ git checkout master WORKSPACE
```
  
  

##### 1-3. project directory structure
```
.
2dFace_to_3dFace
│   README.md
│   main.py    
│   environment.yaml
│
└───BFM
│      BFM_model_front.mat
│      similarity_Lm3D_all.mat
│   
└───data_input
│       video/image for input
│
└───network
│       FaceReconModel.pb
│   
└───fuse_deep3d
│        rasterize_triangles_kernel.soata
│        │     └───input # SR results images will be saved here
│        │   
│        └───renderer
│        │          rasterize_triangles_kernel.so
│        │          ...
│        │ 
│        └───src_3d
└───SR_pretrain_models
│           FFHQ_template.npy
│           mmod_human_face_detector.dat
│           shape_predictor_5_face_landmarks.dat
│           SPARNetHD_V4_Attn2D_net_H-epoch10.pth       
└───SR
│    └───src
│          ...
│
...
```

set <b>-D_GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=1</b> in ./mesh_renderer/kernels/BUILD

```
$ bazel test ...
```

### 2. What do you need to make 3d reconstruction face? 

#### clone the repository
```
$ git clone https://github.com/KoYeJoon/2dFace_to_3dFace.git
$ cd 2dFace_to_3dFace
```

#### for testing you have to ...
  
<br>

##### i) download Basel Face Model.
download "01_MorphableModel.mat" in [this site](https://faces.dmi.unibas.ch/bfm/main.php?nav=1-2&id=downloads, "BFM Model Site") and put into ./fuse_deep3d/BFM

<br>

##### ii) download CoarseData 
Download Coarse data in the first row of Introduction part in [their repository](https://github.com/Juyong/3DFace). 

<br>

##### iii) put the compiled rasterize_triangles_kernel.so into ./renderer folder.

<br>

##### iv) Download Face-SPARNet pretrained models
Download Face-SPARNet pretrained models in from the following link and put then in *./SR_pretrain_models*

* [GoogleDrive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1PZ_TP77_rs0z56WZausgK0m2oTxZsgB2)
* [BaiduNetDisk](https://pan.baidu.com/share/init?surl=zYimaAnIgMIKBf9KANpxog)

<br>

##### v) (optional) if you want to get pre-trained model, download pre-trained reconstruction network. --> 우리 모델이 좋으면 우리 모델로 나중에 수정 
download in [this link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/176LCdUDxAj7T2awQ5knPMPawq5Q2RUWM/view, "pretrained model") and put "FaceReconModel.pb" into ./network subfolder. 


<br>
<br>


### How to make 2d face to 3d face?
you can use easily !!

1. [optional] put in your custom image in ./data_input directory 
```
(Precautions)
* you can change name of input_directory. 
but if you change name, you have to give argument when you run main.py
* if you want to give a input type='image', you can skip. 
but you have to give argument(--type image --test_img_path ./your_img_path) when you run.
```   



2. run !!  
   2-1. (Terminal version)
```
python main.py [--arguments]
```

Below is argument list.
```
[--type] : image/ dir, default : dir
[--test_img_path] : your custom image input image/dir path, default : ./data_input
[--objface_results_dir] : where to save .obj face files, default : ./data_output
```  
  
<br>  
    2-2. (pyqt version)  

```
python qt_image.py
```


<br>
<br>
<br>


### 3. revision history

* 21.06.04. extend input type(you can try not only image but also image directory)
* 21.06.xx. extend gui program (use pyqt), input type(image)
* 21.06.xx. extend gui program, input type(image, video)



<br>
<br>
<br>

# Citation
```
@inproceedings{deng2019accurate,
    title={Accurate 3D Face Reconstruction with Weakly-Supervised Learning: From Single Image to Image Set},
    author={Yu Deng and Jiaolong Yang and Sicheng Xu and Dong Chen and Yunde Jia and Xin Tong},
    booktitle={IEEE Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops},
    year={2019}
}

@InProceedings{ChenSPARNet,
    author = {Chen, Chaofeng and Gong, Dihong and Wang, Hao and Li, Zhifeng and Wong, Kwan-Yee K.},
    title = {Learning Spatial Attention for Face Super-Resolution},
    Journal = {IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (TIP)},
    year = {2020}
}
```

Commit message:

modify project.ui, and add button function. modify SR, fuse_3d code because of confilcting  terminal/pyqt version

README.md, after:

# 2Dface_to_3Dface

| name | how to contact |
| --- | --- |
| Ko Ye Joon | [![Gmail Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-d14836?style=flat-square&logo=Gmail&logoColor=white&link=mailto:yejoon.ko@gmail.com)](mailto:yejoon.ko@gmail.com) |
| Jeong Seung Won |  [![Gmail Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-d14836?style=flat-square&logo=Gmail&logoColor=white&link=mailto:jeongsw34@gmail.com)](mailto:jeongsw34@gmail.com) | 


This is the project about super resolution, face reconstruction, face frontalization.  
If you give image which contained one or more person to model, the model will produce 3d reconstruction face and frontalization face for image.

<br>
<b>(the system structure)</b>
<br>
Later , model image will be attached.

<br>

<pre style="color:#fa8072">
referred : 
    super resolution - sparNet : [click to link](https://github.com/chaofengc/Face-SPARNet)
    3d reconstruction - deep3d : [click to link](https://github.com/microsoft/Deep3DFaceReconstruction, "deep3d link")
</pre>

<br>

### 1. requirements

##### 1-1. Install Dependencies

```
* conda create -n face3d python=3.6
* conda activate face3d
* tensorflow-gpu == 1.12.0 (conda install tensorflow-gpu == 1.12.0 )
* keras==2.2.4
* torch==1.5.1 #pip uninstall tensorboard
* torchvision==0.6.1
* mtcnn
* pillow
* argparse
* scipy
* scikit-image
* imgaug
* opencv-python
* dlib
* tqdm
* PyQt5==5.15.1
```

or
```
* conda env create -f environment.yaml
* conda activate face3d
```

<br>

##### 1-2. compile tf_mesh_renderer

we referred to <b>[this site](https://github.com/microsoft/Deep3DFaceReconstruction, "deep3d link") </b>as the link.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/google/tf_mesh_renderer.git
$ cd tf_mesh_renderer
$ git checkout ba27ea1798
$ git checkout master WORKSPACE
```  
  
<br />

set <b>-D_GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI=1</b> in ./mesh_renderer/kernels/BUILD  
  
```
$ bazel test ...
```
  
  

##### 1-3. project directory structure
```
.
2dFace_to_3dFace
│   README.md
│   main.py    
│   environment.yaml
│
└───BFM
│      BFM_model_front.mat
│      similarity_Lm3D_all.mat
│   
└───data_input
│       video/image for input
│
└───network
│       FaceReconModel.pb
│   
└───fuse_deep3d
│        data
│        │     └───input # SR results images will be saved here
│        │   
│        └───renderer
│        │          rasterize_triangles_kernel.so
│        │          ...
│        │ 
│        └───src_3d
└───SR_pretrain_models
│           FFHQ_template.npy
│           mmod_human_face_detector.dat
│           shape_predictor_5_face_landmarks.dat
│           SPARNetHD_V4_Attn2D_net_H-epoch10.pth       
└───SR
│    └───src
│          ...
│
...
```


### 2. What do you need to make 3d reconstruction face? 

#### clone the repository
```
$ git clone https://github.com/KoYeJoon/2dFace_to_3dFace.git
$ cd 2dFace_to_3dFace
```

#### for testing you have to ...
  
<br>

##### i) download Basel Face Model.
download "01_MorphableModel.mat" in [this site](https://faces.dmi.unibas.ch/bfm/main.php?nav=1-2&id=downloads, "BFM Model Site") and put into ./fuse_deep3d/BFM

<br>

##### ii) download CoarseData 
Download Coarse data in the first row of Introduction part in [their repository](https://github.com/Juyong/3DFace) and put "Exp_Pca.bin" into ./fuse_deep3d/BFM. 

<br>

##### iii) put the compiled rasterize_triangles_kernel.so into ./renderer folder.

<br>

##### iv) Download Face-SPARNet pretrained models
Download Face-SPARNet pretrained models in from the following link and put then in *./SR_pretrain_models*

* [GoogleDrive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1PZ_TP77_rs0z56WZausgK0m2oTxZsgB2)
* [BaiduNetDisk](https://pan.baidu.com/share/init?surl=zYimaAnIgMIKBf9KANpxog)

<br>

##### v) if you want to get pre-trained model, download pre-trained reconstruction network. --> 우리 모델이 좋으면 우리 모델로 나중에 수정 
download in [this link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/176LCdUDxAj7T2awQ5knPMPawq5Q2RUWM/view, "pretrained model") and put "FaceReconModel.pb" into ./network subfolder. 


<br>
<br>


### How to make 2d face to 3d face?
you can use easily !!

1. [optional] put in your custom image in ./data_input directory 
```
(Precautions)
* you can change name of input_directory. 
but if you change name, you have to give argument when you run main.py
* if you want to give a input type='image', you can skip. 
but you have to give argument(--type image --test_img_path ./your_img_path) when you run.
```   



2. run !!  
   2-1. (Terminal version)
```
python main.py [--arguments]
```

Below is argument list.
```
[--type] : image/ dir, default : dir
[--test_img_path] : your custom image input image/dir path, default : ./data_input
[--objface_results_dir] : where to save .obj face files, default : ./data_output
```  
  
<br>  
    2-2. (pyqt version)  

```
python qt_image.py
```


<br>
<br>
<br>


### 3. revision history

* 21.06.04. extend input type(you can try not only image but also image directory)
* 21.06.xx. extend gui program (use pyqt), input type(image)
* 21.06.xx. extend gui program, input type(image, video)



<br>
<br>
<br>

# Citation
```
@inproceedings{deng2019accurate,
    title={Accurate 3D Face Reconstruction with Weakly-Supervised Learning: From Single Image to Image Set},
    author={Yu Deng and Jiaolong Yang and Sicheng Xu and Dong Chen and Yunde Jia and Xin Tong},
    booktitle={IEEE Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops},
    year={2019}
}

@InProceedings{ChenSPARNet,
    author = {Chen, Chaofeng and Gong, Dihong and Wang, Hao and Li, Zhifeng and Wong, Kwan-Yee K.},
    title = {Learning Spatial Attention for Face Super-Resolution},
    Journal = {IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (TIP)},
    year = {2020}
}
```
